Model of a Telephone Contact Centre
A Company operates a single, moderately sized contact centre to handle sales and support for its customers.
Service levels have started to decline and the Company understands that it will lose business if service levels
are not improved. The Management Board would like to model operations so that current and future policy
changes can be evaluated.
The centre operates on a 24-hour basis but contact arrival volumes differ distinctly by 8-hour shift. Because
the major service problems are occurring during the day shift which is from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., focus on that
period. Customers contact the centre via three separate points of entry. Recent arrival histories show that the
following contact volume levels are representative of a typical day shift. The arrivals appear to be
independent, so assume that the interarrival times are distributed exponentially.
Point of Entry Arrivals per Day Shift
Toll free line (phone) 4800
Regular line (phone) 1920
Internet 240
As voice calls enter, customers must pass through an IVR (Interactive Voice Response) System. The current
IVR has a capacity of 50 ports, with callers taking an average of 15 seconds to move through the IVR.
Internet customers proceed immediately to the main customer queue.
The centre currently has 100 seats available for agents. For simplicity assume that all the agents are equally
efficient, that all contacts are treated on a first come first served basis and that the queue has infinite capacity.
There are two main categories of contacts received: sales and support, but from past records an average call
handling time can be modelled by a Normal distribution with a mean of 8 minutes and a standard deviation of
2 minutes per call. Records also show that callers will only remain on hold for up to 6 minutes before
hanging up.
The Board is interested in the following results:
• What is the expected wait time for a customer before reaching an agent?
• What is the average time a customer will spend in the system?
• How many callers will abandon during a typical day?
• What percentage of contacts on average, is answered in 5 minutes or less?
• How many agents are required to be on duty in order to reduce the average time to answer (time in queue)
to less than 20 seconds for 80% of customers?
• How many additional agents would be required to obtain a service level where 90% of the contacts are
answered in 10 seconds or less?
